---
title: "Introducing CalDAV"
date: 2022-05-26T15:34:00+09:00
categories:
  - Memo
tags:
  - CalDAV
# header:
#   teaser: /assets/images/code.jpg
---

## WebDAV

- WebDAV (Web-based Distributed Authoring and Versioning) is an extension to HTTP that allows users to edit and manage files collaboratively on remote web servers.
- WebDAV extends HTTP with more of them like
  - PROPFIND (retrieves properties of resources),
  - MKCOL (creates a new WebDAV collection),
  - COPY and MOVE (copies and moves one resource from one URI to another)
  - LOCK and UNLOCK (creates and removes a shared or exclusive lock over a resource).
- WebDAV RFC chooses XML as the language to use over HTTP communication and there are DTDs (Document Type Definition) to define the XML data exchanged in every method.

## CalDAV

- CalDAV (Calendaring Extensions to WebDAV) is just another extension over WebDAV (RFC-4791) to specify a standard way of accessing, managing and sharing calendaring data based on the iCalendar format.
- In summary it is a protocol to manage typical calendar resources (calendars, events, to-dos,...) as internet WebDAV collections.

## iCalendar

- iCalendar (Internet Calendaring and Scheduling Core Object Specification) is a data format (RFC-5545 replaced RFC-2445 and now defines the standard) for representing and exchanging calendaring and scheduling information such as events, to-dos, journal entries, and free/busy information, independent of any particular calendar service or protocol.
- So, while CalDAV is the protocol to access and manage calendar resources, iCalendar is the format of the data stored in and retrieved from the server.
- Other way of saying the same, a calendar server manages collections of iCalendar formatted resources accessed by users via CalDAV protocol.

## What is the current status of the development libraries about this protocol?

### CalDAV

- `caldav4j` is a project hosted by google which extends Apache Slide WebDAV protocol library and uses iCal4j for iCalendar data processing.
- The main problem with `caldav4j` is that Apache abandoned Slide in 2007 and therefore it is base`d on a deprecated library

### WebDAV

- Apache `Jackrabbit` is a fully conforming implementation of the Content Repository for Java Technology API or JCR.

### iCalendar

- `iCal4j` is a Java API that provides support for the iCalendar specification including a Parser, Object Model and Generator for iCalendar data streams.

https://blogs.nologin.es/rickyepoderi/index.php?/archives/14-Introducing-CalDAV-Part-I.html

## Introduction

- Execute an OPTIONS method. This answers if CalCAV is supported.
- Send a PROPFIND to the root calendar URI of a user. This returns some standard output with calendar information.
- Create a new VEVENT for today using PUT.
- Recover the VEVENT using calendar-multiget REPORT.
- Query for the event using calendar-query REPORT.
- Delete the event.

## OPTIONS

- By default OPTIONS method returns the list of methods supported by the specified URI (in the Allow header).
- any CalDAV server must include calendar-access as a field in the DAV response header from an OPTIONS request on any resource that supports any calendar properties, reports, or methods.
- A value of calendar-access in the DAV header indicates that the server supports all MUST level requirements and REQUIRED features specified by the CalDAV RFC.

## PROPFIND

- The PROPFIND WebDAV method retrieves properties for a specified resource
- In case of a CalDAV collection URI it can return an optional property calendar-description and must return calendar and collection as resourcetype property.
- The answer must be a multi-status response (a WebDAV defined XML response with HTTP code 207) with all the properties for every resource found.
