---
title: "What is Secure Copy Protocol"
date: 2022-06-28T11:34:00+09:00
categories:
  - Memo
tags:
  - Protocol
  - Linux
# header:
#   teaser: /assets/images/code.jpg
---

## What is Secure Copy Protocol

Secure Copy Protocol (SCP) is a method based on (Secure Shell) SSH for safely transferring computer files between a local host and a remote host, or between two remote hosts. The protocol is a "secure" implementation of the RCP (Remote Copy Protocol)—a protocol for transferring files across a network. The RCP is used to transfer the files, and the SSH protocol provides authentication and encryption, so SCP can be considered a mixture of these two protocols. The data that is being transferred remains confidential, so the SCP can be used to successfully block packet sniffers that can extract valuable information from the data packets. The SCP can also benefit from using SSH because it allows the inclusion of permissions and timestamps for the file that needs to be uploaded.

Whenever users transfer files between a server and client (or vice versa) via these apps, those are implemented via the SCP protocol, unless users have chosen to use the SFTP protocol as the default mode for data transfers.

## How does SCP protocol work?

Secure Copy needs authentication from involved hosts. In addition, you should set up an SSH connection between the local host and the targeted remote host before performing the transfer via the protocol. For that, you are required to enter the authorized key for the public key authentication.

After building up the SSH connection between the two hosts, the SCP client will begin a secure copy process with two different available modes—source mode and sink mode. SCP clients often utilize the -f flag (from) to trigger source mode. If you want to trigger sink mode to transfer data to the targeted remote host, you need to use -t flag (to).

- Source mode: An SCP request in the source mode reads files from the targeted distant host and sends them back to the client.
- Sink mode: If the sink mode is used via the SCP protocol on the client, it will send signals to the remote host indicating that there is input data to be written to the remote host.

Typically, a syntax of SCP program is like the syntax of cp (copy). If you wish to copy a local file to a remote host, then you should type in the following command:

```sh
scp LocalSourceFile user@remotehost:directory/TargetFile
```

If you would like to copy a file from remote host or copy a folder from remote host (with -r switch), the following commands apply respectively:

```sh
scp user@remotehost:directory/SourceFile LocalTargetFile

scp -r user@host:directory/SourceFolder LocalTargetFolder
```
